hello it's ruby and today i have got
my second exam of exam season today i am
going to be vlogging my second exam this
is my criticisms exam
and it's currently around half six so
when i wake up i was actually originally
going to go outside and get some
exercise
but i've actually decided that i'm not
really in the mood to do that and i'd
rather do that later as a break when i'm
studying
because it is really cold so instead i'm
going to go on a short walk
and then i'm going to get myself a
really nice
porridge for breakfast so first of all i
got harry potter and the prisoner of
azkaban from my bookshelf because i
actually like to read harry potter in
the morning of exams it gets me in a
really good mindset
and then i went on a short walk and also
got myself a delicious porridge and
iced matcha latte which i took up to my
[Music]
desk
this candle smells like christmas
[Music]
i like to set up my study space so it's
really cozy and it can get me into a
good mindset
and since the exam didn't start until
9am i decided to write a letter in the
meantime so
this one was to my friend izzy
i do really enjoy writing letters i
think it's a really great thing to do
especially at the moment
and i also sealed this one with ceiling
wax
so then i went and filled up my water
bottle which is really important when
you're doing an exam or studying for
long periods of time because
hydration is so important and then
whilst i was waiting for my exam to
start and for the questions to become
available i just made sure i had
paper pens everything i would need on my
desk and
i just went through one of the core
readings again which i thought i might
use
in the exam and this was more to jog my
memory than anything
okay it's 9 a.m and i'm going to
click on to see the exam paper
okay i found it and it's
9a4 i'm eating into precious time
so i got started on just reading through
the questions
then i made my maps for two of the
questions because i wasn't sure which
question i wanted to do
so here i basically just bullet point
all of these ideas for a possible thesis
and i make it really detailed
i always find one of the hardest things
about exams is deciding which question
to do
because there are always so many which
would be fun so
i found out too one of these is on
bodies like the body which i really
didn't really study and then the other
one is on the neurological brain and
psychoanalysis
and those two are my favorite topics and
there's like a cool essay i could write
for both of them
so i'm not sure which one to write but i
think i'm gonna go with psychoanalysis
in the brain
even though i've done more extra reading
on the body
i feel like my answer to the question is
like more direct
with the psychoanalysis one so i'm gonna
do that one even though it's a shame
and i would like to do both but this one
is only one
essay and it's only a one thousand five
hundred what i say so it's not very so
the first thing i do when
i am taking an exam is make a mind map
plan to see which question i want to do
so when i've done my mind map plan the
next thing
is to i basically like brainstormed all
of these
thesis ideas and some of my own thoughts
just trying to think originally and
creatively about the topic
and um i will just go ahead and write
a thesis statement first which is a
really rough cut i will definitely come
back and rewrite this at the end
but it just helps me get into the
mindset of like writing for an essay so
i like to do that first and then after
that i go through and i just kind of
bullet point my paragraph so i'll write
the whole essay and bullet point
with no pressure for it to be good i
find this really useful because
it puts it takes the pressure right off
writing something really
good so my focus is just on getting
ideas down and thinking i'm following a
train of thought
the next thing i'm doing here is just
making a list of my key texts that i'm
going to be looking at
these are the three set tacks i'm going
to be looking at we have to look at
two or more so by this point i had
actually written
half of the essay plan i just didn't
show me actually doing that
okay so next i'm going to go through my
essay plan in more detail and go through
all these bullet points
and just make highlights like comment
highlights
um of places where i can actually
mention the set
texts because that has to be the focus
of the essay and
i don't want to accidentally not mention
them enough and then get penalized for
that so i'm gonna go through now and
make sure that
it's in each of my paragraphs
okay i have now completely finished my
essay plan which is great
um and it's currently 11 o'clock so i'm
going to go downstairs and i'm going to
get myself a snack
and then i'm going to come back and
write the essay
so i got myself a matron banana smoothie
which was
really really delicious
[Music]
and then i got started on actually
writing the essay
[Music]
here we go more writing of essays these
are such repetitive clips
[Music]
it's now 1 30. i've just taken about 30
minutes off for lunch just to
reset now right before i left for lunch
i made a mini to-do list of just the
next two things i want to do on this
essay because
sometimes when you leave a task and come
back to it you obviously
it's really hard to get back into that
sense of flow and that mindset that you
were in right before when you left it
and so
i like to just write down a few quick
notes of what i was planning on doing
next
um which is what i've done here um
basically now i'm going to be going
through
some notes from the core text reading
that i need to reference in this essay
[Music]
oh and i had two biscuits because i was
still quite hungry after lunch but this
filled me up
okay it's 307 and i've just finished my
first draft of it
um i'm not entirely happy with it i've
got to say
i don't think i like my introduction
like my first three paragraphs i think
could all be squeezed into one
but it is under the word count which is
great it's still being graded like
normal exams
but i do want to make it as good as i
can make it um i'm just not sure if i
like it
yet okay it's now what time i think it's
half full maybe yeah okay so it's half
four at the moment
um my family and i just went out for a
really quick bike ride
that's just because i was feeling really
foggy-headed from doing
i've sitting down for so long and i
wanted to just get some light exercise
but not something that would take too
long so
we just went on a quick um bike ride to
clear my head and
um now as you can see i am wearing
sports stuff instead i'm gonna get back
on with the work
in the same way as when i had lunch i
have written a mini to-do list of things
that i
when i left my desk knew that i needed
to do next so
i finished the essay now i'm just going
through it and
i'm really not so happy with it yet i
really hope i will be soon
i'm hoping i'm gonna be finished by i'm
aiming
to be finished by about seven which is
in two and a half hours
so
realistically i think i can do that i
found myself working
really really well after that bike ride
so i'm so so glad i took
an hour out to go on a bike ride
[Music]
it's 6 30 and i
am nearly there with the essay i can't
believe that i've been sat down for two
hours doing that
it feels like i just got back from the
bike ride i've just been so absorbed in
this essay
i'm actually finding it really good fun
it's it's a good essay topic
so i think i'm gonna go on a walk with
my mom and sister now
we're gonna leave in 15 minutes and i've
just got a few last bits where i want to
refer to my notes so i'm just going to
go through
and fill in a few gaps because whenever
i write essays
i leave like x's where i know that
there's
a fact or a quote or a person i want to
reference but i just can't remember
often off in my head
obviously an exam i won't do that if i
can't remember them i just won't put
them in
but because i have the option to do that
for this essay i just leave little x's
through all of my coursework and then i
go back to them at the end
so i've got three things i need to find
in my notes and after that i am done
but i will do a final check of course
so here i was just making the last few
edits doing the last few bits of
research and referring back to my notes
and then i was done which i was really
happy about
so then we went on a lovely evening dog
walk it was such a beautiful day
and i actually had three letters to post
and martha actually was on her
skateboard and getting lola to pull her
along which was really
quite funny and very cute so when i got
back i got my gymnastics mat
out we got back from our dog walk which
is really nice
so i was gonna do a workout this morning
as i said but i decided not to
um i'm just gonna do a really quick ten
minute ab workout and maybe practice a
few gymnastic skills because we're
eating
dinner eight so this is my ankle brace
i'm going to do an ab workout and maybe
just practice some gymnastic skills and
do a little bit of stretching
i have just gone running and walking and
cycling and things so
i don't think i need to warm up as much
as i usually do in the morning
okay i really didn't film any of my
workout i've only got crunches left so
i thought i would film that just so you
can see
[Music]
there we go our workout done and i'm
just gonna do some nice
gentle gymnastics i love doing
gymnastics it's one of my favorite
things to do
okay it's 9 30. so i decided to read my
essay aloud to my mom just for clarity's
sake and
to make sure it's clear and that it
makes sense and things
and i think i'm ready to go with it
so i'm going to submit it now and then
i'll come back tomorrow morning to check
it
to make sure i'm totally happy with it
okay it's 10 30 and i have
just submitted my essay actually i
submitted it twice because
i did it once and then i realized that
i hadn't put one of the page numbers in
for something so i
went back and reformatted and
resubmitted it i also ended up doing
citations i'm pretty sure we were told
we didn't have to do them
but i got scared last minute and so i
decided to just
do them anyway i realized i completely
forgot to end the vlog and say i'm doing
it the next day
everything submitted the deadlines
passed so i hope that you enjoyed
watching this exam vlog and i hope that
you have a productive week